# Vent_Photon

A Particle project named Vent_Photon

## Welcome to your project!

Every new Particle project is composed of 3 important elements that you'll see have been created in your project directory for Vent_Photon.

#### ```/src``` folder:  
This is the source folder that contains the firmware files for your project. It should *not* be renamed. 
Anything that is in this folder when you compile your project will be sent to our compile service and compiled into a firmware binary for the Particle device that you have targeted.

If your application contains multiple files, they should all be included in the `src` folder. If your firmware depends on Particle libraries, those dependencies are specified in the `project.properties` file referenced below.

#### ```.ino``` file:
This file is the firmware that will run as the primary application on your Particle device. It contains a `setup()` and `loop()` function, and can be written in Wiring or C/C++. For more information about using the Particle firmware API to create firmware for your Particle device, refer to the [Firmware Reference](https://docs.particle.io/reference/firmware/) section of the Particle documentation.

#### ```project.properties``` file:  
This is the file that specifies the name and version number of the libraries that your project depends on. Dependencies are added automatically to your `project.properties` file when you add a library to a project using the `particle library add` command in the CLI or add a library in the Desktop IDE.

## Adding additional files to your project

#### Projects with multiple sources
If you would like add additional files to your application, they should be added to the `/src` folder. All files in the `/src` folder will be sent to the Particle Cloud to produce a compiled binary.

#### Projects with external libraries
If your project includes a library that has not been registered in the Particle libraries system, you should create a new folder named `/lib/<libraryname>/src` under `/<project dir>` and add the `.h`, `.cpp` & `library.properties` files for your library there. Read the [Firmware Libraries guide](https://docs.particle.io/guide/tools-and-features/libraries/) for more details on how to develop libraries. Note that all contents of the `/lib` folder and subfolders will also be sent to the Cloud for compilation.

## Compiling your project

When you're ready to compile your project, make sure you have the correct Particle device target selected and run `particle compile <platform>` in the CLI or click the Compile button in the Desktop IDE. The following files in your project folder will be sent to the compile service:

- Everything in the `/src` folder, including your `.ino` application file
- The `project.properties` file for your project
- Any libraries stored under `lib/<libraryname>/src`

## Redo Loop

Desktop settings
    .json has "particle.targetDevice": "proto"
    local_config.h has 
        const   String    unit = "proto";
        #define BARE                  // Run without peripherals, except maybe a POT

Laptop settings.json has  "particle.targetDevice": "vent"
    .json has "particle.targetDevice": "vent"
    local_config.h has 
        const   String    unit = "vent";

On desktop (has curlParticle.py running in cygwin)
    after observing outputs from long cURL run, Modify main.h etc.   Make sure it compiles.
    flast to target 'proto' and test
    push into GitHub repository

On laptop (has curl "kjejt" running in cygwin)
    pull from GitHub repository changes just made on desktop
    compile
    flash to target 'vent'

View results
    Prototype realtime using Blynk (ExpThermo)
    Target realtime using Blynk (Sunshine Room)
    Target post-process using Vent_data_reduce.sce in sciLab

## Hardware notes

The PLC  mounted in Sunshine Room at knee level by window where Kathy's feet reside.  Most effective place to measure temperature.

The PWM signal from the PLC in the Sunshine Room goes up the 6-wire instrumentation line.   Not only unshielded by not possible to combine the PWM signals in twisted pairs.   So the Tp_Sense signal is corrupt unless PWM is off.   So every 30 minutes, which is about time constant of the wood stove, the application stops the blower to read Tp_Sense.

Potential solutions of PWM noise issue:
    separate shielded Tp_Sense wire.  Old antenna coax would be good for this.
    Separate shielded PWM signals line (the three POT signals: 10v, GND, 0-10v)

Grounds all tied together, so 0-10V signal can be generated by 0-3.3v PWM output of the PLC using 10V power source for PWM.

System gain ~3 deg F for 100% fan

~30 sec duct heat soak

~4500 sec room heat soak